doc: document for statement `optimize table` (#5966)
datafuselabs/databend: docs/doc/30-reference/30-sql/00-ddl/20-table/60-optimize-table.md

---
title: OPTIMIZE TABLE
---

> Optimize the give table, by compacting data, purging historical data.

Author: ```suggestion
Optimize the given table, by compacting data, and purging historical data.
```

## Syntax

```
OPTIMIZE TABLE [database.]table_name [ PUREGE | COMPACT | ALL] 
```

- `OPTIMIZE TABLE T PUREGE`

  Purges the historical data of table T, only the last snapshot, and the data(segments/blocks) referenced by this snapshot will be kept.

  If data keeps being injected into table at small scale, and historical data is not required, it is recommended to execute this statement periodically.

 
- `OPTIMIZE TABLE T COMPACT`
 
  Compact the table data only by merging small blocks/segments into larger ones.
 
  - A new snapshot of table T will be added to the history, by this compaction operation.

  - Depends on the size of the given table, it may take quite a while to complete the execution.

 
- `optimize table T ALL`
 
  Compact the historical data, and then, purge the history 

- `optimize table T `

   The same as `optimize table T purge`

## Examples

```sql

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: thanks!
